in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of
role-based access control or rbac
if we look at the skills being measured
we're now diving into the ideas around
describing
azure governance features and then over
the next set of lessons we'll look at
all those different attributes around
our back resource logs tags policy
blueprints and the cloud adoption
framework
so that's where we're going to focus
role-based access control is a key part
of azure we have the idea of a role
assignment
now if i think about
what is a role assignment
remember we have our azure ad
so our azure aed has for example our
users
that could be people
that could be service principles for an
application
we have groups and other types of things
as well
then in terms of our resources remember
we have a hierarchy in my azure idea we
have the idea of a root management group
but then i can have a whole hierarchy of
management groups that we use for
various different things
so i have this set here
of management groups
and then under that at a certain point
well we have a certain subscription
and then within the subscription well i
can create resource groups so then i
have the idea that i have
resource group one i can have resource
group two
etc etc i have other resource groups
and then we finally create a resource
that resource could be a vm it could be
a storage account it could be a database
whatever that is but we have multiple
resources
so we have all these different scopes
where i can be granted a role if you
remember
management groups subscriptions resource
groups we could assign role-based access
control we could assign policy we could
assign budgets so right now we're
focused on this idea of a role
assignment so we have a certain scope
and we have a certain identity
user group service principle and so the
next thing then we have is well we have
the idea of a role
and a role is essentially a set of
actions
that that role enables me to do so a
role assignment is a collection of these
three things
a role assignment is the idea let's
change color
of all assignment is for a certain
identity
i'm having a certain role
being assigned at a certain scope
so these all of this
these are the possible scopes to which a
role can be assigned so i'm taking a
specific role a set of actions and i'm
giving it to a certain identity
at a certain scope so those three things
together
are a role assignment
and remember it's inherited so if i
grant a role that the subscription
was inherited down to all of the
resource groups the resources inside it
if i granted it at a management group up
here was inherited to all the child
management groups then all the
subscriptions the resource groups the
resources within that so this is the
point of role-based access control there
are a huge number of built-in roles i
can create custom roles
and the key point again is this role
assignment
remember anytime we talk to azure
we're going through the azure
resource manager
this is where
role assignment is in full so there was
no bypassing this i can't say oh i'll go
through this special command line or
powershell or rest api or portal or
there's no magic
these are always going to get enforced
just like policy
so let's see this in action so if we
jump over for a second
if we go and look now again i can apply
these at many different levels
but let's take the idea of applying it
at a subscription so if i go home
and we'll scroll down and look at
subscriptions
i could look at a particular
subscription
and i'm going to go to access control
identity and access management i am
and here i can actually see all the
different roles that exist
now because i'm looking at a
subscription
every single possible role is going to
show because within a subscription i can
have any resource provider in any
resource but many of these roles are
specific to a certain type of resource
there are some generic ones so if we
look at these first three
we have owner contributor and reader
owner can do anything
including changing permissions on a
resource
contributor can do anything but cannot
change the permissions so they can't
give someone else access and a reader
will can view everything but cannot
change anything so these are very
generic they apply to anything but then
other types of role will target
particular things so if we looked at a
role for example that was specific to
let's say a virtual machine contributor
here
let's
actually scroll over
let's actually go and look
for a second they're all the roles
what i actually want to do is scroll
over and see the role it's not let me
scroll so i'll go to my role assignments
and over here
what i can do
is i'll look at a certain role
assignment
in this case i'm just going to pick my
network contributor then
so here i can see the network
contributor role
and what i can see here these are those
permissions the actions that particular
role can do so here this is at the
control plane so i'm looking at actions
this is the arm control plane
notice they're built around the idea of
the resource providers
and then the particular actions i have
and you don't have to worry about the
details the whole point is a role is
just a huge collection
of actions
and then what i do is i add
a role assignment
so just exactly as we said i pick the
role
that i want to give so i could say
reader
then i pick who i want to give it to
a user group service principal or
managed identity
and i would add those people
and the scope was the subscription
i've already picked it so it's those
three things
and we can see there's already a whole
bunch
of role assignments
if i was to look at something within
this particular subscription
so we can see has got a whole bunch of
spending and other things within there
but if we go and look at the resources
within this subscription i'm just going
to pick it really doesn't matter what i
pick i'm going to pick
azure automation solution sure and look
at the access control and role
assignments
you'll notice there's a whole bunch of
role assignments and if you look at the
scope where does it come from
most were inherited from the
subscription so this shows that whole
idea of role assignments are inherited
down you can see here well this one was
actually inherited from a management
group
and depending on where i was you might
see some that actually came well here's
one from root
you might see ones coming from the
resource group you might have ones
directly on the resource itself so it
really just depends
but that is what role-based access
control is it's the idea
that i have roles which is sets of
actions built from the resources in the
resource providers
that i'm giving to a certain identity
user group service principle
to a certain scope and the key point
remember is
inheritance
they're going to get inherited down the
stack all the way down to the resources
and they are additive if i have a role
assignment here and here and here and
here
my sum of permissions are all of those
added together there is no deny
assignment that's standard in azure deny
is reserved for very special use cases
like blueprints which we will see later
on